OK in this video what I want to do is read a poem from a text file and just display it to the console.
And we're going to use getline to do that.
So I'm in the section 19 workspace in the read file.
Underscore three project and what I've done here is I've got a poem already and I created a file called
poem that text just like we did before and this is Shakespeare's son and 18 poem and you can see it's
14 lines.
And what I want to do is read each line and display it out to the console.
Now if we tried to do this with the extraction operator reading one of these words at a time it's much
trickier because you know when do we hit the end of line.
We really don't want to deal with any of that.
The simplest way to do it is just to read one line at a time and then display that line right out.
So let me show you where the main is.
This is about as simple as it gets.
I've got I O stream extreme included.
You can see here I've created my in file and I'm opening poem text in my parents directory which is
exactly where I wanted to be in code like if the file is not able to be opened displaying an error again
and I'm outta here and I'm closing the file at the end.
So what I need to do here is simply process that file.
So how do we do this.
It's really just two lines of code it's really really straightforward.
So what I'm going to do here is say while I'm going to use to get line and there's two versions of getline
by the way there's a getline that works with character pointers or C-style strings.
And there is a version that works with C++ strings were using C++ strings.
From now on in the course so that's what we're going to be using.
So we're using stood getline give it the name of the input stream which in this case is infile and Wardwell
want this read into what this read into line.
We haven't defined line yet so let's define line.
I'll do that right here.
I'll say stood string line.
That's it.
That's where the input is going into.
So what do we do.
Well while we're getting a line and it's successful this will be true.
So what do we want to do with that line.
We just want to display it right to the console so can't get much easier in this out line and I need
a new line.
That's it that's really that simple.
So if I run this there's the poll right one line at a time till I hit the end of the line.
I'm reading that in and I'm just displaying it right back out OK.
Pretty easy right now you can see how easy it would be to write a file copy utility.
We haven't learned about writing files yet thinking you know where we're going right.
We can just like we write to stood out we can write to a file so we could easily write a utility that
will copy a file that will actually going to do that we're going to when we get to the output files
section will read this file and maybe this one a Romeo and Juliet or something a bigger one and we'll
write it out with line numbers and so forth that way we can modify it a little bit.
So that's it.
This is using getline reading one line at a time.
Now what I want to do next is I want to go into read file underscore for project and what we'll do is
we'll do the same thing but we'll use an formatted input so we'll do it one character at a time.
So I'll set that up here at back.
OK so I'm back in the read file underscore for Project for the section 19 workspace and what we're going
to do here is we're going to read Sonnet 18 again except we're going to use an formatted input in this
case we're just going to use the get method and what that'll do is it will return one character at a
time and we'll just display that one character out.
So the advantages of using an formatted input are you don't have to worry about newlines you don't have
to worry about files you don't have to worry about fancy characters and different things that could
maybe break the way that you're reading because it's formatted and it's just going to process characters
and formatted it's pretty cool.
It gives you a lot of flexibility and that's what we'll do now.
So this is where we are again.
We've got streaming extreme exactly what we're before we've created our infile object and open the file
and we've tested to be sure we've got an open file.
We're closing it down here.
So right in here is where we're going to do our processing of the file.
How do we do this.
Well pretty simple again while in file that get some character C..
OK.
We need to define C as the characters.
We'll do that right here.
We'll say char.
See that's it it's really pretty simple.
So while this is true what do I do.
Stood out the character and then that's it.
I mean down here I guess we could print a new line here.
So we get a little bit of space at the end so we can see a little better but that's it.
So while we're reading a character and it's true right we haven't hit the end of file.
We haven't hit some bad bits we haven't read some we haven't had any hardware issues.
While this is good we've got that C.
We're just going to display it.
So if we run this there's the poem exactly like it was before.
That's it.
Now you're ready for the challenge and the challenge is going to be a fun one there's a couple of challenges
actually.
So I'll see you in the next video and I'll explain the challenge to you.